[Music]
we're here at stores back in Toronto and
we're going to find out how to use and
modify shipping containers as
alternative building blocks they've
worked on some really interesting
projects building homes additions
cottage spunky's man caves mobile
offices and a ton more so we're going to
go meet up with Ann's I need to find out
more I love modernist buildings I love
modern architecture and the square boxes
fit right into that a good paint job on
them stands out it lasts for years it's
durable and it's just a solid building
they're also great because you can move
them so shipping container is basically
a standardized steel box that allows you
to ship anything anywhere in the world
typical dimensions are 20 and 40 feet
but there are a number of specialty
containers so you can go with a 10-foot
container you can go with the 45 foot 48
and 53 containers are made out of
something called Corten steel so Corten
steel is a weathering steel when you see
rust on the container it's not
traditional rough that you'd see on mild
field it's actually creating a
protective patina a barrier that
protects the steel underneath that's
what allows it to put it on a ship and
not have it rot away from all the
seawater
so my number one favorite is definitely
the new old stock man case in
conjunction with Jayson halter and the
guys in new old stock we built two ultra
high-end super luxurious man caves that
are currently in Los Angeles are in
downtown LA they featured everything
from Spanish cedar Calcutta marble
shower off-grid water solar panels
Harlem house is another great one it is
the first container extension in Toronto
the idea of integrating the container
with the traditional build the end
result is going to be an awesome fusion
of the two Rogers is another favorite
the Roger shipping container fan hub
that we bill features three containers
on the bottom full open-concept one
container on top cantilever ten feet
over the right side and then a full 740
square foot patio deck another favorite
is the 10 foot container bunkie that we
built for a client of ours up in of all
places
tiny Ontario so it was literally a tiny
10 foot container which is 10 by 8 80
square feet fully insulated finished
it's got a beautiful glass sliding door
on it
all shipping containers come from China
you may find people like us that can
build them locally but for cost sake you
bring them all in from China new or use
Soyuz containers usually have a 10 to 20
year life being used for shipping goods
around the world
so trains planes automobiles on trucks
they go anywhere and everywhere new
containers are built in China they're
loaded once they're brought to their
destination unloaded and then they're
intended to be sold either for storage
modification or anything else that you
can do with them
we'll use used and new containers for
modification as you can see behind me
depending on the application so a used
container is great for simple storage on
site if you want to throw some roll-up
doors or use it as is and store goods
inside great for use containers you want
to use more of the new containers for
things like housing for food serving or
retail purposes you always want to use
new because a use container you'll never
know what was inside of it there is no
manifest that you can find on that
container because each shipper puts
their own goods inside and then somebody
else will ship something else in it so
you can ship anything from baby products
clothing right up to nuclear waste
inside of a container which I've
actually seen that before the nuclear
waste
if we're doing a container modification
there's a few I guess steps that you can
take to modify it first we'll cut all of
our openings that will be for doors
windows vents louvers they're then
framed with steel once the opening is
framed we go to the inside of the
container we'll do all of the interior
framing if we're doing walls and
ceilings you'll do an electrical
roughing will get all the rough and work
done then it goes over to our paint shop
then it comes back into the shop and
that's when you do all the final
finishing it follows the same type of
building that a traditional build will
take except we're not using stick build
we're using containers containers are
great for a number of reasons it's
something that we can do off-site and
then deliver to site complete typically
you'll go overnight you'll have a
foundation and then the next day you'll
have the structure complete so it's
great for that instant deployability
durability is another thing that's great
for the housing and the bunkie sector
because it's a steel box so you don't
have to worry about wood rotting or the
weather conditions doing a container
home or bunkie if you're going for
permitting it is the exact same way that
you would do a traditional building so
you approach an architect he does
drawings once the drawings are done you
then approach the city the city reviews
the drawings make sure everything meets
Ontario Building Code if it does they
give you the stamp of approval and you
can begin construction if it doesn't
they may make you do some revisions and
resubmit or they may tell you you can do
it at all depending on the project some
challenges are they're not the most
do-it-yourself friendly
build because there is a lot of Steel
work involved at least on the exterior
of the structure so never you want to
put a door window if you can't weld or
you haven't work with steel before it's
difficult to do it's a lot different
than working with wood but other than
that the only other thing is if other
people mainly neighbors don't like the
look of containers but if it's done
right they'll love what you do as long
as you make it look good
I hope you enjoyed this video if you
want to see more of our favorite
alternative spaces you can click right
here we made a playlist click right here
to subscribe to our channel and be sure
to follow us on Instagram and Facebook
to stay up to date on what we're doing
thanks and see you in the next video